Add Architecture Overview page (#167)
pixie-labs/pixie-docs: content/en/05-reference/02-architecture.md

---
title: "Architecture"
metaTitle: "Reference | Architecture"
metaDescription: "A detailed overview of Pixie's components"
order: 2 
---

## Overview

Pixie consists of three main components: 

- **Vizier**: Pixie's data plane for data collection and processing. An instance of Vizier is deployed to each cluster which needs to be monitored. 
- **Cloud**: Pixie's control plane for serving Pixie's API and UI, and managing and tracking metadata (e.g. orgs, users, Viziers).
- **Vizier Operator**: Pixie's [Kubernetes operator](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/extend-kubernetes/operator/) which is used to help deploy and manage Vizier on a cluster, such as keeping all components running and up-to-date. 

## Vizier

Vizier is Pixie's data plane. It is responsible for collecting and processing data within the cluster that is being monitored.

### Components

1. **Pixie Edge Module (PEM)**: The data collectors, deployed to each node via a daemonset. PEMs serve as a short-term in-memory store (up to 24h) for all data collected in the cluster. The PEMs are also responsible for processing this data when they receive a script execution request. 

> 2. **Collector (Kelvin)**: The Kelvin is the higher-level data collector, where PEMs send data to for further aggregation (e.g. joins, unions)  and processing. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. **Collector (Kelvin)**: Kelvin is the high-level data collector. During script execution, PEMs send partially processed data to Kelvins. Kelvins aggregate the node level view from each PEM into a cluster-level view and complete the script execution steps that requires all of the data, such as aggregates and joins.
```

> 3. **Cloud Connector**: The cloud connector communicates with Pixie Cloud and passes messages between the two systems. These messages range from  heartbeats, used to indicate the Vizier's overall status, and script execution requests and results.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. **Cloud Connector**: The cloud connector handles message passing between Vizier and Pixie Cloud. These messages range from  heartbeats, used to indicate the Vizier's overall status, and script execution requests and results.
```

> 4. **Metadata**: The metadata service serves as the hub for all of Vizier's metadata. This includes K8s metadata, used to contextualize any collected data, and the status of each PEM running in the cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. **Metadata**: The metadata service serves as the hub for all of Vizier's metadata. The metadata stored includes k8s objects (ie pods, services, namespaces) for adding context to execute scripts as well as metadata about the Vizier state (ie PEM status, [dynamic logs deployed](https://docs.px.dev/tutorials/custom-data/dynamic-go-logging/)) 
```
